README.md, before:

This project is developing the Local Monitoring and Control (LMC) prototype for the [Square Kilometre Array](https://skatelescope.org/).

Documentation
-------------

The documentation for this project, including how to get started with it, can be found in the `docs` folder, and can be better browsed in the SKA development portal:

 * [MCCS LMC Prototype documentation](https://developer.skatelescope.org/projects/lfaa-lmc-prototype/en/latest/index.html "SKA Developer Portal: MCCS LMC Prototype documentation")

How to use
----------

Full details of how to deploy this prototype can be found in the documentation. Briefly:

1. To set up your environment, follow the instructions on the [Tango Development Environment set up](https://developer.skatelescope.org/en/latest/tools/tango-devenv-setup.html "Tango Development Environment set up") page.
2. Clone this repo
3. Verify your setup::
```bash
$ cd /usr/src/ska-docker/docker-compose
$ make start itango #not needed if it already shows in "make status"
$ docker exec -it -e PYTHONPATH=/hosthome/ska-logging:/hosthome/lmc-base-classes/src \
  itango python3 \
  /hosthome/lfaa-lmc-prototype/src/ska/mccs/MccsMaster.py -?
usage :  MccsMaster instance_name [-v[trace level]] [-nodb [-dlist <device name list>]]
Instance name defined in database for server MccsMaster :
$ docker exec -it -e PYTHONPATH=/hosthome/ska-logging:/hosthome/lmc-base-classes/src \
  itango tango_admin --add-server MccsMaster/01 MccsMaster lfaa/master/01
$ docker exec -it -e PYTHONPATH=/hosthome/ska-logging:/hosthome/lmc-base-classes/src \
  itango python3 \
  /hosthome/lfaa-lmc-prototype/src/ska/mccs/MccsMaster.py 01
1|2020-03-13T05:27:15.844Z|INFO|MainThread|write_loggingLevel|SKABaseDevice.py#490|tango-device:lfaa/master/01|Logging level set to LoggingLevel.INFO on Python and Tango loggers
1|2020-03-13T05:27:15.845Z|INFO|MainThread|update_logging_handlers|SKABaseDevice.py#169|tango-device:lfaa/master/01|Logging targets set to []
1|2020-03-13T05:27:15.846Z|INFO|MainThread|init_device|SKABaseDevice.py#399|tango-device:lfaa/master/01|No Groups loaded for device: lfaa/master/01
1|2020-03-13T05:27:15.846Z|INFO|MainThread|init_device|SKABaseDevice.py#401|tango-device:lfaa/master/01|Completed SKABaseDevice.init_device
Ready to accept request
```

Test and build docs
-------------------

This project uses ``tox`` to set up the various build stages. To execute in 
the development environment, simply run::

    python -m pip install tox
    tox 

Two target environments are run ``py37`` tests and ``docs``. These can be 
selected using the `-e` option.

License
-------

As you can see from the LICENSE file, this project is under a BSD 3-clause 
"Revised" License.

Commit message:

Add missing /hosthome set to getting started docs

README.md, after:

This project is developing the Local Monitoring and Control (LMC) prototype for the [Square Kilometre Array](https://skatelescope.org/).

Documentation
-------------

The documentation for this project, including how to get started with it, can be found in the `docs` folder, and can be better browsed in the SKA development portal:

 * [MCCS LMC Prototype documentation](https://developer.skatelescope.org/projects/lfaa-lmc-prototype/en/latest/index.html "SKA Developer Portal: MCCS LMC Prototype documentation")

How to use
----------

Full details of how to deploy this prototype can be found in the documentation. Briefly:

1. To set up your environment, follow the instructions on the [Tango Development Environment set up](https://developer.skatelescope.org/en/latest/tools/tango-devenv-setup.html "Tango Development Environment set up") page.
2. Set up your itango docker container to mount your host working directory. This will allow you to launch locally hosted code within the itango container. To do this, edit `/usr/src/ska-docker/docker-compose/itango.yml` and add the following lines under the itango service definition:
```yaml
    volumes:
      - ${HOME}:/hosthome:rw
```
3. Clone this repo
4. Verify your setup::
```bash
$ cd /usr/src/ska-docker/docker-compose
$ make start itango #not needed if it already shows in "make status"
$ docker exec -it -e PYTHONPATH=/hosthome/ska-logging:/hosthome/lmc-base-classes/src \
  itango python3 \
  /hosthome/lfaa-lmc-prototype/src/ska/mccs/MccsMaster.py -?
usage :  MccsMaster instance_name [-v[trace level]] [-nodb [-dlist <device name list>]]
Instance name defined in database for server MccsMaster :
$ docker exec -it -e PYTHONPATH=/hosthome/ska-logging:/hosthome/lmc-base-classes/src \
  itango tango_admin --add-server MccsMaster/01 MccsMaster lfaa/master/01
$ docker exec -it -e PYTHONPATH=/hosthome/ska-logging:/hosthome/lmc-base-classes/src \
  itango python3 \
  /hosthome/lfaa-lmc-prototype/src/ska/mccs/MccsMaster.py 01
1|2020-03-13T05:27:15.844Z|INFO|MainThread|write_loggingLevel|SKABaseDevice.py#490|tango-device:lfaa/master/01|Logging level set to LoggingLevel.INFO on Python and Tango loggers
1|2020-03-13T05:27:15.845Z|INFO|MainThread|update_logging_handlers|SKABaseDevice.py#169|tango-device:lfaa/master/01|Logging targets set to []
1|2020-03-13T05:27:15.846Z|INFO|MainThread|init_device|SKABaseDevice.py#399|tango-device:lfaa/master/01|No Groups loaded for device: lfaa/master/01
1|2020-03-13T05:27:15.846Z|INFO|MainThread|init_device|SKABaseDevice.py#401|tango-device:lfaa/master/01|Completed SKABaseDevice.init_device
Ready to accept request
```

Test and build docs
-------------------

This project uses ``tox`` to set up the various build stages. To execute in 
the development environment, simply run::

    python -m pip install tox
    tox 

Two target environments are run ``py37`` tests and ``docs``. These can be 
selected using the `-e` option.

License
-------

As you can see from the LICENSE file, this project is under a BSD 3-clause 
"Revised" License.
