docs/src/reference/power.rst, before:

##########################
 Power management in MCCS
##########################

**********************
 Hardware power modes
**********************

SKA hardware may support up to three power modes:

-  ON: the hardware is powered on and fully operational. This mode is
   supported by all SKA hardware.

-  OFF: the hardware is powered off. Generally we would expect all
   hardware to be able to be turned off. There may be special cases,
   however, where this is not supported. For example, an externally
   managed cluster can be turned off, but the MCCS interface to it might
   only allow for submission and monitoring of jobs. Thus it cannot be
   turned off from the MCCS point of view.

-  STANDBY: the hardware is in a low-power standby mode. Such a mode is
   important in two cases:

   - where powering up a subsystem with many devices, it is important to
     limit the inrush current. This is achieved by powering up devices
     into a standby mode that uses no more than 5% of their nominal
     power; then carefully orchestrating transitions to full power.
   - where powering up a device from off could take a long time (perhaps
     several minutes). Such devices may instead be powered up into
     standby mode, in which power consumption is low, but the time to
     fully power on the hardware is short (a couple of seconds).

   Standby mode is not supported by all hardware; indeed there
   may be very few hardware devices that support it.

**********************
 Power mode breakdown
**********************

Generally speaking, one cannot tell a hardware device to turn itself
off; for once it is off, it loses the ability to turn itself on again.
Instead, power to a device is controlled by some upstream device. For
example, power to a TPM is controlled by the subrack in which that TPM
is installed. Standby mode, however, is controlled by the device itself.
Thus, implementation of the three power modes breaks down into:

- OFF: tell the upstream device (e.g. subrack) to deny power to the
  device (e.g. TPM)
- STANDBY: tell the upstream device to supply power to the device, then
  tell the device itself to go into standby mode
- ON: tell the upstream device to supply power to the device, then
  tell the device itself to go fully operational

************
 Power flow
************

Map
===
The activity diagram below shows the flow of power through the MCCS
system; i.e. cabling, essentially. The (/) points are switch points at
which the power can be turned on/off. These switch points are annotated
with the Tango device commands that drive the switch.

Note: this diagram will evolve over time.

.. uml:: power_flow.uml

Startup sequence
================

Boot-up
-------

When power is first applied to MCCS, the following minimal bootup
sequence is followed:

#. Power is applied to all cabinets. All the cabinet management boards
   come on, as they are the primary control points for the cabinet
   subsystems. Switches and subelements for the SPS cabinets are
   configured to remain off, as are the subelements for all but one of
   the MCCS cabinets. 

#. Power is applied to the APIUs in the field nodes. All the antennas
   are configured to remain off.

#. The cabinet management board for the MCCS cabinet that houses the
   MCCS controller node is configured to start up the cabinet's 1Gb
   network switch and the MCCS controller node.

#. The 1Gb network switch powers up

#. The MCCS controller node boots up.

#. The kubernetes cluster is started.

#. A minimum chart is deployed, containing just the tango subsystem and
   the MCCS Controller Tango device.

Power-on
--------

When TM sends the MCCS Controller the Startup command, the MCCS
Controller must start up:

#. the rest of MCCS 
#. the SPS subrack management boards and switches
#. the SPS TPMs 
#. the field equipment

Prototype status
----------------

In the current prototype implementation, all of MCCS is deployed
immediately on startup, so that when TM sends the MCCS Controller the
Startup command, it need only start up the SPS cabinets and field
equipment.

.. uml:: power_sequence.uml


Self Shutdown
-------------
The MccsTile has the ability to modify the ALARM and WARNING thresholds on attributes.

Certain attributes are configured to shutdown on ALARM. Currently these are:

  * *boardTemperature*
  * *fpga1Temperature*
  * *fpga2Temperature*
  
The following snippet shows how you can configure the thresholds.

    .. code-block:: python


        thresholds = {
            "boardTemperature" : {
                "max_alarm": "79"
                "min_alarm": "25"
                "max_warning": "74"
                "min_warning": "27"
                },
            }
        tile_proxy.SetAttributeThresholds(json.dumps(thresholds))
        # To see the max_alarm value.
        print(tile_device.get_attribute_config(attribute).max_alarm)
            ...

Commit message:

MCCS-2109: Update docs with lowest drivable state of SpsStation.

docs/src/reference/power.rst, after:

##########################
 Power management in MCCS
##########################

**********************
 Hardware power modes
**********************

SKA hardware may support up to three power modes:

-  ON: the hardware is powered on and fully operational. This mode is
   supported by all SKA hardware.

-  OFF: the hardware is powered off. Generally we would expect all
   hardware to be able to be turned off. There may be special cases,
   however, where this is not supported. For example, an externally
   managed cluster can be turned off, but the MCCS interface to it might
   only allow for submission and monitoring of jobs. Thus it cannot be
   turned off from the MCCS point of view. MCCS does not currently have control over 
   the Subrack Power Distribution Unit (PDU). As a result the lowest drivable state 
   for SpsStation is STANDBY (Subrack ON and Tiles OFF.)

-  STANDBY: the hardware is in a low-power standby mode. Such a mode is
   important in two cases:

   - where powering up a subsystem with many devices, it is important to
     limit the inrush current. This is achieved by powering up devices
     into a standby mode that uses no more than 5% of their nominal
     power; then carefully orchestrating transitions to full power.
   - where powering up a device from off could take a long time (perhaps
     several minutes). Such devices may instead be powered up into
     standby mode, in which power consumption is low, but the time to
     fully power on the hardware is short (a couple of seconds).

   Standby mode is not supported by all hardware; indeed there
   may be very few hardware devices that support it.

**********************
 Power mode breakdown
**********************

Generally speaking, one cannot tell a hardware device to turn itself
off; for once it is off, it loses the ability to turn itself on again.
Instead, power to a device is controlled by some upstream device. For
example, power to a TPM is controlled by the subrack in which that TPM
is installed. Standby mode, however, is controlled by the device itself.
Thus, implementation of the three power modes breaks down into:

- OFF: tell the upstream device (e.g. subrack) to deny power to the
  device (e.g. TPM)
- STANDBY: tell the upstream device to supply power to the device, then
  tell the device itself to go into standby mode
- ON: tell the upstream device to supply power to the device, then
  tell the device itself to go fully operational

************
 Power flow
************

Map
===
The activity diagram below shows the flow of power through the MCCS
system; i.e. cabling, essentially. The (/) points are switch points at
which the power can be turned on/off. These switch points are annotated
with the Tango device commands that drive the switch.

Note: this diagram will evolve over time.

.. uml:: power_flow.uml

Startup sequence
================

Boot-up
-------

When power is first applied to MCCS, the following minimal bootup
sequence is followed:

#. Power is applied to all cabinets. All the cabinet management boards
   come on, as they are the primary control points for the cabinet
   subsystems. Switches and subelements for the SPS cabinets are
   configured to remain off, as are the subelements for all but one of
   the MCCS cabinets. 

#. Power is applied to the APIUs in the field nodes. All the antennas
   are configured to remain off.

#. The cabinet management board for the MCCS cabinet that houses the
   MCCS controller node is configured to start up the cabinet's 1Gb
   network switch and the MCCS controller node.

#. The 1Gb network switch powers up

#. The MCCS controller node boots up.

#. The kubernetes cluster is started.

#. A minimum chart is deployed, containing just the tango subsystem and
   the MCCS Controller Tango device.

Power-on
--------

When TM sends the MCCS Controller the Startup command, the MCCS
Controller must start up:

#. the rest of MCCS 
#. the SPS subrack management boards and switches
#. the SPS TPMs 
#. the field equipment

Prototype status
----------------

In the current prototype implementation, all of MCCS is deployed
immediately on startup, so that when TM sends the MCCS Controller the
Startup command, it need only start up the SPS cabinets and field
equipment.

.. uml:: power_sequence.uml


Self Shutdown
-------------
The MccsTile has the ability to modify the ALARM and WARNING thresholds on attributes.

Certain attributes are configured to shutdown on ALARM. Currently these are:

  * *boardTemperature*
  * *fpga1Temperature*
  * *fpga2Temperature*
  
The following snippet shows how you can configure the thresholds.

    .. code-block:: python


        thresholds = {
            "boardTemperature" : {
                "max_alarm": "79"
                "min_alarm": "25"
                "max_warning": "74"
                "min_warning": "27"
                },
            }
        tile_proxy.SetAttributeThresholds(json.dumps(thresholds))
        # To see the max_alarm value.
        print(tile_device.get_attribute_config(attribute).max_alarm)
            ...
